a shipment of medicine intended for
dozens of Israeli hostages being held in
Gaza has arrived in the territory the
delery comes after Qatar and France
mediated the first agreement between
Israel and the militant Group which is
deemed a terror group by multiple
countries some relief on its way at last
but the fragile deal is already at risk
more than 2 days after it was announced
Hamas set new conditions for the
delivery of medicines to hostages
insisting Israel must not inspect the
trucks carrying them and that for each
box of medicines for the hostages 1,000
must be delivered to Gaza residents
Israel said the trucks entering the
strip on Wednesday would undergo
security inspections
nonetheless it's a worrying development
for the relatives of the more than 100
hostages who remain in Gaza more than
100 days after they were seized some of
whom have serious preexisting health
conditions in a press conference held in
Washington DC relatives repeated calls
for the Swift release of their loved
ones a week ago
today we stood on the border with Gaza
so close to
om we screamed his name through youth
speakers hoping that in someway somehow
he might hear us and know that we're
fighting for
him then new conditions demanded by
Hamas could also delay Aid to
Palestinians in southern Gaza who are
desperately in need of the basics
required for
survival gaza's Hamas run government
says since the deal was broken the
South's largest city Han Unis has come
under the most intense fire it's seen
since the War
Began the air strikes are absolutely
terrifying as you know we living in
tents they don't protect us from
shrapnell they don't protect us from
anything the sound of the air strikes is
Extreme a short while ago the strikes
were very close to us from Davos un
Chief Antonio gues reiterated his calls
for an immediate ceasefire to facilitate
both the release of Israeli hostages and
aid for Palestinians in
Gaza do all the standing by the
civilians mostly women and children are
killed mened B bombarded forth from
their homes and denied access to
humanitarian Aid he described the
catastrophe unfolding in Gaza as being
beyond
words I run across now to Jerusalem and
bring in Juliet Tuma from the un's
agency for Palestinian refugees it's
good to have you with us um what can you
tell us about the current status of
Medical deliveries to
Gaza well I've just uh returned from uh
Gaza myself and the situation is
absolutely desperate there are severe
shortages in medicines specifically
those related to chronic diseases
including diabetes and cancer and the
such also because the pharmacies the
private pharmacies have been all but
shut um since um like for after the two
weeks after the War Began and we're not
able to replenish supplies MH I I
understand the head of your organization
Filipe lazarini just finished a tour of
Gaza um and saying that he was shocked
by the poor conditions what did he tell
you how did he describe what he saw
there well we were in Gaza together uh
with the the the commissioner and and
myself and we went around not only to
the South this time but we also went to
the middle areas where uh an area that
has witnessed a fresh wave of
displacement uh following the evacuation
orders that were uh issued by the
Israeli authorities just before
Christmas so um it was filled with
people people were everywhere displaced
some of them were displaced multiple
times and wherever you looked in the
South especially you had these
um these structures that were covered
with plastic sheeting that became people
homes uh for for for now with very very
poor living conditions including hygiene
earlier today Palestine investment fund
chairman Muhammad Mustafa said at the
world economic forum and I'm quoting him
that more people are in Gaza are likely
to die of hunger and famine than War so
what is being done right now to make
sure that that does not
happen look uh it is only matter of time
that um The Siege is uh going to to kill
people in Gaza in fact The Siege is the
silent killer of people this is
primarily the older people who are not
able to get medical care or medicine
it's also um children with special needs
uh also due to the lack of medicine um
but it's also imagine someone having a
heart attack and canot get to the
hospital also because of the reoccurring
Cuts in
telecommunications I mean when I was
there it was impossible to place a phone
call on a mobile phone and the internet
was extremely patchy um and this is the
situation uh for the vast majority of
people in Gaza completely cut out of of
the world so indeed The Siege is the
silent killer of people in Gaza and soon
enough people are going to start dying
of diseases and of hunger and
starvation Juliet Tuma press officer for
the United Nations relief and works
Agency for Palestine refugees we
appreciate your time tonight thank
you